What does nonmetrical mean?
Definitions for nonmetrical
non·metri·cal
Here are all the possible meanings and translations of the word nonmetrical.
Did you actually mean notoriously?


    nonmetrical adjective

    Without the constraints of a metronome; not played or sung with a strict underlying rhythmic method.


    Chaldean Numerology

    The numerical value of nonmetrical in Chaldean Numerology is: 4

    Pythagorean Numerology

    The numerical value of nonmetrical in Pythagorean Numerology is: 7



consider the image of a house. when you are looking at a two dimensional image of a house, you do not assume that the house itself is governed by the limitations of two dimensional space. The thing you are perceiving is a two dimensional representation of a three dimensional structure. 

when you see a childhood photograph of a dear friend, you recognize them instantly although they now look much different with age. The image doesn't ``contain" any of the time that has passed, but you can still see the difference between the past in the image and the present in which you are. 


Thus, a transcription of any series of acoustic events, such as speech or music, no matter how detailed, is still only a representation of the events, and not the sound events themselves.

Likewise a song is not simply the sum of its adjacent notes. Theories of metrics and rhythm that consider only the relationships of adjacent notes are missing key signal-level differences that are most often employed at the primary metrical level: timbre, dynamic stress, accent, melodic contour. Differences in the durations of notes are present at the primary level, but wind instruments in particular are timed with the breath of the musician. 


separating into groups the motifs of a song: 
a catchy chorus generally has longer notes and fewer words than its verses. 


 the endings of repeated phrases, for instance, signal the approach of the upcoming cycle, reinforce the meter of the pattern, and allow some time for a performer to take a breath. Duration also plays a role in 


When we consider sounds in their true multidimensional sense, it is clear that 

each note is composed of spatial states that change over time. 



These states can be broken down into an onset (attack, decay), a sustain portion, and a release. 



let us not forget that inhibition is just as important as the excitation, and sometimes things are stressed only by surrounding silence. 
Using IOI to test rhythm learning patterns is like trying to compare steak cooking methods without consideration of resting time: if you cut it too soon, you're likely to conclude that the cow was dry. 

like developing a theory of architecture from only pictures of houses

like developing a theory of ceramics just from watching that scene in ghost. 


